- [Instructor] Now we're going to actually jump into code again
and create some data in our database.
Okay, so the first thing I'd like you to do
is to open up src, main, java.
And you'll notice that I've put a new folder in here
called util, and I want to kind of walk through some
of these objects that I've created.
So the first is an abstract class called DataAccessObject.
And it's going to extend a data transfer object
to the generics interface.
Now, there's a few things here that I've added
to the beginning.
I've given us a SELECT statement from LAST_VAL
and we'll talk a little bit about what that's for later
but Postgres uses sequences
much the same way that Oracle uses sequences
to give you incrementing values on your unique primary keys.
So this is how I'm going to actually go get the value
of the sequence when I update it.
But again, we'll talk a lot more about that later.
I've also defined our customer sequence name,
and this can come from the SQL files
that you originally imported into your database.
The real meat and potatoes comes down below
as I look at our constructor
where we take a connection in
and we're going to hold a handle to that connection
in our DataAccessObject.
We've also got several abstract methods,
and these are things that you might expect
to find in a DAO.
So findById, that's the R or the read.
findAll also goes along with that read
and that gets all of the data from the database.
Then there's the update method,
which relates to the U in CRUD,
the create method or the C,
and then the D, delete.
I've also got a function here predefined for you
on getLastVal, and again, we'll use that later on
but not quite right now.
I've also created a DataTransferObject interface,
and this interface has a single method
and that's getId.
The final class that I created for you
is a customer itself.
Now, the customer is nothing more than a data representation
from our database that implements our DTO interface.
So now we're ready to write a little bit of code.
So what I'd like you to do
is in the base package here,
create a new Java class
and we will call this CustomerDAO.
Go ahead and select OK.
So we're going to take this class,
and we are going to extend
the DataAccessObject abstract class,
and we are going to pass it a generic of Customer.
Now, it's going to tell me
that I need to implement some methods.
So I'm going to pop up a window here
to implement the methods for me.
Every IDE has some generate function.
So I'm going to do use that
and select the implement methods.
I'm going to go ahead and implement all of them.
And you'll notice that it's still having some issues
and that's because I've got to give it a constructor.
So go ahead and generate our constructor.
And now we're good to go.
Okay, so now that we've got the stub out,
now we're ready to actually write some code.
The first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to add a private static final String
called INSERT, and INSERT
is going to be as you might expect,
our INSERT statement.
So INSERT INTO customer
and we're going to pass it a first_name,
a last_name, an email address,
a phone, an address, a city,
a state, and a zipcode.
And this all comes from the database itself.
And then we are going to send it some values.
Now, with raw JDBC,
you don't really get a lot of fanciness in your values.
And all we can do
is set them equal to question marks.
So each question mark has to match one
of the values that you previously stated.
And in this case, we are going to have first_name,
last_name, email, phone, address, city, state and zip.
That's eight values.
So we need to have eight question marks.
All right, we've got that entered.
So now let's scroll down here to our create method.
And we're going to go ahead and implement this method.
Now, we're going to use a try with resources,
so we're going to do a try
and we are going to create a PreparedStatement.
And the PreparedStatement
is going to be equal to this.connection.prepareStatement.
And we're going to send it our INSERT string.
Go ahead and close that out.
And create our method.
Now, we need to do a little bit of importing here.
So let's import the PreparedStatement.
And you'll notice I've got an unhandled exception,
which is something that we might expect.
So we will do a catch down here on SQLException.
And we will simply do an e.printStackTrace.
And to keep our API relatively pure,
we will throw a new RuntimeException
and pass it that exception if it happens.
That way I don't have to throw it out of my method.
So now we're ready to go implement our statement.
And implementing is actually relatively easy.
We've already passed in the string itself.
So now I just need to go in
and do a statement.setString,
and I pass it the value.
Now, this is a little different.
This is not a zero-based array.
It actually starts with one.
And in all honesty, everything in the SQL namespace
that I'm familiar with is all one-based arrays,
which I know is a little bit strange
but that's what it is.
So we are going to get this from the dto.getFirstName,
and we're just going to continue down through the rest.
Okay, so now that we manually have typed all
of that information in,
we just have one more thing to do.
That is to type statement.execute.
And then for now, we're just going to return null.
At the very end, we've got a original return null.
We'll go ahead and remove that.
So now let's jump to our JDBCExecutor.
And we're going to do a few changes here
to the way that this works.
And this is just to keep things nice and clean.
So after we create our connection,
we're then going to create a CustomerDAO
with that connection.
And now we're going to create a customer.
And we're going to populate this customer
with some made-up information based on the first president
of the United States.
Okay, I've gone ahead and finished creating all
of that information.
Obviously, you can make up whatever you want here.
But now what we're simply going to do
is call our customerDAO.create
and pass our customer in.
That's all there is to it.
Let's go ahead and execute our method.
Allow everything to compile and run.
And we have a process finished.
We have no idea that it was added,
so let's go to our database.
We're going to type psql -h localhost -U
postgres -d hplussport.
Type in our password of password,
and now we're simply going to type in select star
from customer where last_name
equals single tick, Washington, semicolon,
and you'll see we get two rows.
The second one is the one that we just created
with the sequence starting at 10,000.